A (Not So) Brief Note

This tool with the unwieldy name (Quest For Glory Character Importer '95) was 
something I had started writing when I was a young kid of 16, all because of 
my love for the Quest for Glory series. A the time, I had pretended to be a 
small part of a larger corporation -- who knows why, now -- when it was just me.
Looking back, I'm pretty sure it was painfully obvious I was just a lone kid.

The source code provided here was written in Visual Basic 5.0, but I have 
recently compiled it with Visual Basic 6.0, and I believe there are tools that 
will help you to convert older VB code into VB.NET 2010 or later. (I know earlier
versions of Visual Studio.net could do such upgrades automatically, even if they
weren't perfect.)

Those of you looking for secrets on decoding the file format of the QFG character
imports will be sorely disappointed. I originally never bothered/intended to 
decipher the algorithm nor allow arbitrary stats editing. I took a very low-tech 
approach, by simply finishing each game with each character (using debug codes, 
and trainer programs) and storing the resulting SAV file's contents as string 
variables, to be recalled with the click of a button. The saved character's name 
is easy to edit, as it is in plain-text and in a predictable location in every 
SAV file (it's the 1st line for QFG1 and QFG2, and the 2nd for QFG3 and QFG4).

The idea for it first came to me way back when the 720k floppy disk, that I kept 
all my saved characters on, started going bad. I was just going to grab a new 
diskette, when I thought how much better it would be if I had a program that
could spit out the saved characters on command. "Better" may have just been 
my excuse to learn programming. When I quickly saw how easily it would be to 
replace the saved character's name, I thought others might also enjoy access to 
the repository I had created. And so I put it online.  I did try a text-based 
program first, written in QBASIC.. or maybe QuickBASIC, but I really do think
that a graphical interface can be much more pleasing and easier to use, on the
whole.

Ironically, I did later attempt to include the algorithm in a later version. I 
found a decompiled copy of the script from QFG1EGA online somewhere (I don't 
remember where, but it was probably somehow related to SCI Studio), also relying 
on my extensive (at the time) knowledge of the RAZZLE DAZZLE ROOT BEER debug codes 
and item/stat numbers.  Unfortunately, a HDD crash caused me to lose any progress 
I'd made on that front, and when I tried to find the decompiled script online again
I came up empty. That put enough of a damper on my enthusiasm that I didn't try
again. 

I did learn some very interesting things about the import saves though, such
as the fact that event flags from the game are saved right along with inventory 
and stats. For instance, a QFG1 import save records if you used turned Baba Yaga 
into a frog, or if you used the dispel potion on Elsa. Clearly that concept was 
abandoned, and I don't know if each subsequent game even passes along any of that 
info or not, but can you imagine how different the series could have been if it had? 
Imagine QFG4 if you never scared Baba Yaga away from Spielburg, or QFG5 if you never
freed Elsa from the brigands?

The version of the source code is v2.05.1973 which I had never actually released. 
There are enough changes between this and v2.05.1493 -- the last publicly released 
version -- that I really should have called it v2.06 at *least*. But, hey, if I had
to do it over again today, there'd be a lot of things I'd change. The whole thing was 
a valuable learning experience for me.  The two biggest changes are the addition of 
a "Perfect Characters" checkbox, and an "Importing Into Quest For Glory V" checkbox.
All the QFG5 checkbox was default to long filenames, since QFG5 wasn't limited to the
old DOS 8.3 filename format that QFG1-4 were. The "Perfect Characters" is a bit more
interesting, but again there's nothing magical about it. For QFG1 and QFG2 I had 
started to gather a set of characters that had max for *all* stats, and not just the 
base class stats. I wanted to get the eight remaining saves for QFG3 and QFG4, but
real life got in the way, and it the source stayed as it lay, gathering dust.

Which brings me to why I'm releasing the source code. I've had my fun building it,
and I'm amazed to see that (a few) other people actually use this, too. It's a really
cool feeling that other people are enjoying (or at least making use of) something 
that *I* wrote. Even if that something is a silly little cheat for (or compliment to?)
a few obscure old computer games.  Maybe seeing this code could inspire somebody else 
to have fun building something and get to experience that cool feeling when someone
uses *their* work.

- Charles
January 30, 2013